<PRE>Ivan Krstic' wrote:
 &gt; Some number of these muppets approached me over the
 &gt; last couple of years offering to donate a free license
 &gt; for their excellent products. I used to be more polite
 &gt; about it, but nowadays I ask that they Google the
 &gt; famous Gutmann Sound Wave Therapy[0] and mail me
 &gt; afterwards.

  Gutmann Sound Wave Therapy: Gutmann recommends:
:<i> :	Whenever someone thinks that they can replace
</I>:<i> :	SSL/SSH with something much better that they
</I>:<i> :	designed this morning over coffee, their
</I>:<i> :	computer speakers should generate some sort
</I>:<i> :	of penis-shaped sound wave and plunge it
</I>:<i> :	repeatedly into their skulls until they
</I>:<i> :	achieve enlightenment.
</I>
On SSL, Gutmann is half wrong:

SSL key distribution and management is horribly broken,
with the result that everyone winds up using plaintext
when they should not.

SSL is layered on top of TCP, and then one layers one's
actual protocol on top of SSL, with the result that a
transaction involves a painfully large number of round
trips.

We really do need to reinvent and replace SSL/TCP,
though doing it right is a hard problem that takes more
than morning coffee.

As discussed earlier on this list, layering induces
excessive round trips.  Layering communications
protocols is analogous to having a high level
interpreter written in a low level language. What we
need instead of layering is a protocol compiler,
analogous to the Microsoft IDL compiler.  The Microsoft
IDL compiler automatically generates a C++ interface
that correctly handles run time version negotiation,
which hand generated interfaces always screw up, with
the result that hand generated interfaces result in
forward and backward incompatibility, resulting in the
infamous Microsoft DLL hell.  Similarly we want a
compiler that automatically generates secure message
exchange and reliable transactions from unreliable
packets. (And of course, run time version negotiation)

---------------------------------------------------------------------
The Cryptography Mailing List
Unsubscribe by sending &quot;unsubscribe cryptography&quot; to <A HREF="http://www.metzdowd.com/mailman/listinfo/cryptography">majordomo at metzdowd.com</A>

</PRE>