<PRE>food for consideration. yes, #s are from MSFT as he notes, but are the only 
ones we have presently wrt actual Storm extent, yes? If not, pls post 
pointers...

=JeffH
------
Storm Worm botnet numbers, via Microsoft
<A HREF="http://blogs.zdnet.com/security/?p=533">http://blogs.zdnet.com/security/?p=533</A>

Posted by Ryan Naraine @ 7:40 am Categories: Patch Watch, Hackers, Microsoft, 
Browsers, Rootkits, Vulnerability research, Spam and Phishing, Spyware and 
Adware, Botnets, Exploit code, Viruses and Worms, Data theft, Pen testing, 
Passwords Tags: Microsoft Corp., Worm, Machine, MSRT, Productivity, Microsoft 
Windows, Cyberthreats, Spyware, Adware &amp; Malware, Viruses And Worms, Security, 
Operating Systems, Software, Ryan Naraine
icn_balloon_154x48
+14
16 votes Worthwhile?

If the statistics from Microsoft\u2019s MSRT (malicious software removal tool) 
are anything to go by, the Storm Worm botnet is not quite the world\u2019s 
most powerful supercomputer.

The tool \u2014 which is updated and shipped once a month on Patch Tuesday 
\u2014 removed malware associated with Storm Worm from 274,372 machines in the 
first week after September 11. In all the tool scanned more about 2.6 million 
Windows machines.

These numbers, released by Microsoft anti-virus guru Jimmy Kuo, puts the size 
of the botnet on the low end of speculation that Storm Worm has commandeered 
between 1 million and 10 million Windows machines around the world.

[ SEE: Storm Worm botnet could be world\u2019s most powerful supercomputer ]

The MSRT numbers, though helpful, shouldn\u2019t be relied on as gospel. For 
starters, the tool targets a very specific known malware (it only finds 
exactly what it\u2019s looking for) and attackers constantly tweak malware 
files to get around detection. In addition, it is only delivered to Windows 
machines that have automatic updates turned on, which means there are liely 
tons and tons of hijacked machines that never gets a copy of the MSRT.

Still, Kuo claims that the September version of MSRT made a dent in the botnet.

    Another antimalware researcher who has been tracking these recent attacks 
has presented us with data that shows we knocked out approximately one-fifth 
of Storm\u2019s Denial of Service (DoS) capability on September 11th. 
Unfortunately, that data does not show a continued decrease since the first 
day. We know that immediately following the release of MSRT, the criminals 
behind the deployment of the Storm botnet immediately released a newer version 
to update their software. To compare, one day from the release of MSRT, we 
cleaned approximately 91,000 machines that had been infected with any of the 
number of Nuwar components. Thus, the 180,000+ additional machines that have 
been cleaned by MSRT since the first day are likely to be home user machines 
that were not notably incorporated into the daily operation of the Storm 
botnet. Machines that will be cleaned by MSRT in the subsequent days will be 
of similar nature.

    The September release of the MSRT probably cleaned up approximately one 
hundred thousand machines from the active Storm botnet. Such numbers might 
project that the strength of that botnet possibly stood at almost half a 
million machines with an additional few hundred thousand infected machines 
that the Storm botnet perhaps were not actively incorporating.

Kuo also confirmed fears that the botnet will slowly regain its strength once 
those cleaned machines become reinfected because those machines are likely 
unpatched and not equipped with any security software.

---
end



---------------------------------------------------------------------
The Cryptography Mailing List
Unsubscribe by sending &quot;unsubscribe cryptography&quot; to <A HREF="http://www.metzdowd.com/mailman/listinfo/cryptography">majordomo at metzdowd.com</A>

</PRE>