<PRE>*************************************************

BSF/DIMACS/DyDAn Workshop on Data Privacy

      February 4 - 7, 2008
      DIMACS/DyDAn Center, CoRE Building, Rutgers University

Organizers:
      Kobbi Nissim, Ben Gurion University, kobbi at cs.bgu.ac.il 
      Benny Pinkas, University of Haifa, benny at cs.haifa.ac.il 
      Rebecca Wright, Rutgers University, rebecca.wright at rutgers.edu 

Presented under the auspices of the DIMACS Special Focus on 
Communication Security and Information Privacy and 
the Center for Dynamic Data Analysis (DyDAn).

    ************************************************

An ever-increasing amount of data is available in digital form, often
accessible via a network. Not surprisingly, this trend is accompanied
by an increase in public awareness of privacy issues and by
legislation of privacy laws. The interest in privacy, and the tension
between privacy and utility of data, is amplified by our growing
ability to collect and store large amounts of data, and our ability to
mine meaningful information from it. This workshop will view privacy
in a broad sense in order to facilitate interaction and discussion
between privacy-oriented researchers in different communities.

The study of &quot;privacy&quot; is inherently interdisciplinary, spanning a
range of applications and scenarios, such as analysis of census data,
detection and prevention of terrorist activity, and biomedical
research. There is a fundamental interplay between privacy and law,
security, economics, and the social sciences. This workshop will
foster interactions between researchers in these fields with those in
statistics and computer science, toward the goal of developing problem
formulations that can be translated into a technical mathematical
language that lends itself to a more rigorous study of privacy. The
workshop will contrast these formal definitions with more intuitive
notions of privacy from the social sciences, economics, philosophy and
law to determine the extent to which they capture the perceived
meaning of privacy in different settings.

Privacy-preserving technologies may soon become an integral part of
the basic infrastructure for the collection and dissemination of
official statistics, as well as for research in business, economics,
medical sciences, and social sciences. Functional solutions for
preserving privacy would therefore serve as a central part of the
infrastructure for those disciplines. This workshop will address a
variety of questions on algorithms for privacy-preserving analysis
such as:

  * To what extent can such techniques be applied to 
     statistical data?
  * What are the consequences to privacy and confidentiality 
     if such techniques are not used?
  * Are changes in statistical tools needed to make them 
     compatible with such techniques?
  * Can the techniques be modified to allow use of standard 
     statistical tools and practices? 

**************************************************************
Program:

Monday, February 4, 2008

 8:00 -  8:50  Breakfast and Registration

 8:50 -  9:00  Welcome and Opening remarks
               Rebecca Wright, DIMACS Deputy Director

 9:00 - 10:00  Tutorial: Differential Privacy
               Adam Smith, Penn State University

10:00 - 10:30  PINQ 
               Frank McSherry

10:30 - 11:00  Break

11:00 - 12:00  Tutorial: Smooth Sensitivity and Sampling
               Sofya Raskhodnikova, Penn State University

12:00 - 12:30  Tutorial: Exponential Mechanism 
               Kunal Talwar

12:30 -  2:00  Lunch

 2:00 -  3:00  Tutorial: Statistical Methods 
               Alexandra Slavkovic

 3:00 -  3:30  Break

 3:30 -  4:30  Tutorial: Synthetic Data 
               John Abowd

Tuesday, February 5, 2008

 8:30 -  9:00  Breakfast and Registration

 9:00 - 10:30  Tutorial: Secure Multiparty Computation and 
               Privacy-Preserving Data Mining 
               Yehuda Lindell, Bar Ilan University

10:30 - 11:00  Break

11:00 - 11:35  The Difficulty of Preventing Disclosure
               Moni Naor

11:35 - 12:05  E Gov, Online Citizen Scrutiny and Participation -
               The Joint Challenges for Cryptologists and Policy Makers 
               Tal Zarsky, University of Haifa

12:05 - 12:30  Robust De-anonymization of Multi-dimensional Databases 
               Vitaly Shmatikov, The University of Texas at Austin 

12:30 -  2:00  Lunch

Statistics:
 2:00 -  2:25  Privacy: Theory Meets Practice on the Map
               John Abowd

 2:25 -  2:50  A Hybrid Perturbation/Swapping Approach for Masking Numerical Data
               Rathindra Sarathy, Oklahoma State University 

 2:50 -  3:20  Break

 3:20 -  3:45  Deterministic History-Independent Strategies for Storing 
               Information on Write-Once Memories
               Gil Segev, Weizmann Institute of Science

 3:45 -  4:10  Cell Suppressions Leak Information
               Shubha Nabar, Stanford University 

 4:10 -  4:35  A Learning Theory Perspective on Data Privacy: 
               New Hope for Releasing Useful Databases Privately
               Avrim Blum, Katrina Ligett, Aaron Roth, Carnegie Mellon University

 4:50 -  5:50  Distinguished Lecture: Dilemmas of Privacy
               Problems of Marketers, Governments and Social Advocates
               Joseph Turow, University of Pennsylvania
               
 5:50          Dinner

Wednesday, February 6, 2008

 8:30 -  9:00  Breakfast and Registration

 9:00 -  9:30  What Can We Learn Privately?
               Shiva Kasiviswanathan

 9:30 - 10:00  Mechanism Design
               Frank McSherry / Kunal Talwar

10:00 - 10:30  Everlasting Privacy in Voting Protocols
               Tal Moran, The Weizmann Institute of Science

10:30 - 11:00  Break

11:00 - 11:30  Efficient Protocols for Set Intersection and Pattern Matching 
               with Security Against Malicious and Covert Adversaries
               Carmit Hazay, Bar-Ilan University

11:30 - 12:00  Mobile Data Collection and Processing
               Aggelos Kiayias

12:00 - 12:30  On the Cultural Inflections of Surveillance Discourse
               Rivka Ribak, University of Haifa

12:30 -  2:00  Lunch

 2:00 -  2:25  Verification of Integrity for Outsourced Content
               Publishing and Database Queries
               Danfeng Yao

 2:25 -  2:50  Secure Logistic Regression
               Yuval Nardi, Carnegie Mellon University

 2:50 -  3:20  Break

 3:20 -  3:45  Constructions of Truly Practical Secure
               Protocols using Standard Smartcards
               Yehuda Lindell, Bar Ilan University

 3:45 -  4:10  Eran Omri

 4:10 -  4:35  Delegatable Anonymous Credentials
               Melissa Chase

Thursday, February 7, 2008
 
 8:30 -  9:00  Breakfast and Registration

 9:00 -  9:25  Protecting the Confidentiality of Tables by Adding Noise to 
               the Underlying Microdata
               Paul B. Massell, Statistical Research Division, U.S. Census Bureau

 9:25 -  9:50  How Should We Solve Search Problems Privately?
               Amos Beimel, Ben-Gurion University

 9:50 - 10:15  Deniable Authentication
               Yevgeniy Dodis, NYU and Harvard University 

10:15 - 10:30  Alex Selkirk, The Common Datatrust Foundation

10:30 - 10:45  Break

10:45 - 11:30  Helen Nissenbaum

11:30 - 12:30  PANEL
               moderated by Stephen Fienberg

12:30 -  2:00  Lunch

 2:00 -  2:25  Privacy Utility Tradeoff in Data Publishing
               Vibhor Rastogi, University of Washington

 2:25 -  2:50  On Lower Bounds for Noise in Private Analysis of Statistical Databases
               Sergey Yekhanin, Institute for Advanced Study

 2:50 -  3:20  Break

 3:20 -  3:45  k-Anonymous Data Mining
               Arik Friedman, Technion, Israel

 3:45 -  4:10  Efficient Algorithms for Masking and Finding Quasi-identifiers
               Ying Xu, Stanford University 

 4:10 -  4:35  Privacy-Preserving Sharing of Network Data with Anonymization Tools: - 
               Characterizing Privacy/Utility Tradeoffs and Multi-Level Protection
               William Yurcik, University of Texas at Dallas

************************************************************************************
Registration:

Pre-registration deadline: January 28, 2008

Please see website for registration information.

*********************************************************************
Information on participation, registration, accomodations, and travel 
can be found at:

  <A HREF="http://dimacs.rutgers.edu/Workshops/DataPrivacy/">http://dimacs.rutgers.edu/Workshops/DataPrivacy/</A>

   **PLEASE BE SURE TO PRE-REGISTER EARLY**

********************************************************************



---------------------------------------------------------------------
The Cryptography Mailing List
Unsubscribe by sending &quot;unsubscribe cryptography&quot; to <A HREF="http://www.metzdowd.com/mailman/listinfo/cryptography">majordomo at metzdowd.com</A>

</PRE>