<PRE>Yet another web attack:

<A HREF="http://www.theregister.co.uk/2008/09/11/cookiemonstor_rampage/">http://www.theregister.co.uk/2008/09/11/cookiemonstor_rampage/</A>

Apparently, this one was found and described over a year ago by Mike  
Perry, who decided to release all the details when there was no  
significant followup.  (Sidejacking was announced at about the same  
time, and people apparently think the two attacks are the same; but  
they aren't, and mechanisms to prevent sidejacking generally don't  
block Cookie Monster.)

As I understand the attack, it's this:  Cookies can be marked Secure.   
A Secure cookie can only be returned over an HTTPS session.  An cookie  
not marked Secure can be returned over any session.  So:  If a site  
puts security-sensitive data into a non-Secure cookie, an attacker who  
can spoof DNS or otherwise grab sessions can send a HTTP page  
allegedly from the site that set the cookie asking that it be returned  
- and it will be.

It turns out hardly anyone bothers to mark their cookies secure.  In  
Firefox, if you list your cookies, you can sort on the Secure field.   
I only found a couple of cookies marked - mainly from American  
Express, one of the few sites that gets this right.  (Bank of America,  
for example, doesn't; Gmail with the new HTTPS-only setting does, but  
other Google services don't.)

My own conclusion from this:  This is yet another indication that the  
whole browser authentication model is irretrievably broken.  It's just  
way too complex, with way too many moving parts which can interact in  
dangerous ways.  The list of requirements for a &quot;safe&quot; Web application  
- even just based on attacks known today - is so long that no one can  
remember them all, much less check any substantial Web application to  
see if it follows them.

We need a better approach.
                                                         -- Jerry


---------------------------------------------------------------------
The Cryptography Mailing List
Unsubscribe by sending &quot;unsubscribe cryptography&quot; to <A HREF="http://www.metzdowd.com/mailman/listinfo/cryptography">majordomo at metzdowd.com</A>

</PRE>